feat: Add GitHub Announcement Blog (#287)
cloudquery/docs: blog/introducing-the-github-cloudquery-provider.md

---

> title: Introducing The Github CloudQuery Provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Introducing The GitHub CloudQuery Provider
```

tags:
- announcement
  date: '2022-08-08T00:00:00'
  description: >-
  CloudQuery is an open-source, extensible framework that gives you a
  single-pane-of-glass to your cloud-infrastructure using SQL. Today, we are
  happy to announce the release of the GitHub Provider for CloudQuery.
  authors: roneliahu
  image: /img/blog_covers/introducing-the-github-cloudquery-provider.jpg
---

> CloudQuery is an open-source, extendable framework that gives you a single-pane-of-glass to your cloud-infrastructure using SQL. Today, we are happy to announce the release of the Github Provider for CloudQuery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CloudQuery is an open-source, extendable framework that gives you a single-pane-of-glass to your cloud-infrastructure using SQL. Today, we are happy to announce the release of the GitHub Provider for CloudQuery.
```

> Github is source-control provider helps developers store and manage their code, as well as track and control changes to their code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub is source-control provider helps developers store and manage their code, as well as track and control changes to their code.
```

> In this short tutorial, we will install CloudQuery and use it to fetch a Github resources. Then, we will use SQL to get visibility into security, compliance and cost-management in Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial we will install CloudQuery and use it to fetch GitHub resources. Then, we will use SQL to get visibility into security, compliance and cost-management in GitHub.
```

I think we can remove `short` for brevity, WDYT?

<!--truncate-->
## Setup

> First we need to [download](https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery/releases) our pre-compiled CloudQuery binary, we can also download it with the following brew command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First we need to [download](https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery/releases) our pre-compiled CloudQuery binary. We can also install it with the following [brew](https://brew.sh/) command:
```

```bash
brew install cloudquery/tap/cloudquery
# After initial install you can upgrade the version via:
brew upgrade cloudquery
```

> Before running CloudQuery we need to generate a `config.yml`. We won't dive into all the options available and let CloudQuery generate one for us.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before running CloudQuery we need to generate a `config.yml` via the `init` command:
```

Since we don't detail other configuration options, WDYT about removing this mention?

```bash
cloudquery init github
```

> Now that we have our `config.yml` ready we need to add our Github Personal Access Token, to create on refer to this [guide](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token) by GitHub.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have our `config.yml` ready we need to add our GitHub Personal Access Token. To create one refer to this [guide](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token) by GitHub.  
```

> Add the token we created and the organization(s) you want to fetch, to the configuration.

Reviewer: Can we add what scopes are required for the generated token?
Also, we should mention the token should be considered a secret and the config file should not be committed to source control (a more detailed explanation could be to put a placeholder in the config, and tell users to find replace it from an env variable).

```yaml
  - name: github
    configuration:

>       access_token: "<YOUR ACCESS TOKEN HERE>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      access_token: "<YOUR ACCESS TOKEN HERE>"
```

      orgs: ["<YOUR ORG NAME>"]
    resources:
      - organizations
      - repositories
      - teams
      - billing.actions
      - billing.packages
      - billing.storage
      - issues
      - hooks
      - installations
      - external_groups
```

## Running

> CloudQuery requires us to connect to a database. Either use an existing one (we change the `dsn` in the `config.yaml`), or simply create a database with the following command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CloudQuery requires us to connect to a database. Either use an existing one (we change the `dsn` in the `config.yml`), or simply create a database with the following command
```

To be consistent with other mentions of `config.yml`

---
title: Introducing The GitHub CloudQuery Provider
tags:
  - announcement 
date: '2022-08-08T00:00:00'
description: >-
  CloudQuery is an open-source, extensible framework that gives you a
  single-pane-of-glass to your cloud-infrastructure using SQL. Today, we are
  happy to announce the release of the GitHub Provider for CloudQuery. 
authors: roneliahu

> image: /img/blog_covers/introducing-the-github-cloudquery-provider.jpg

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
image: https://docs.cloudquery.io/og-image/Introducing The GitHub CloudQuery Provider
```

It's for meta image generation (twitter, linkedin and etc)

---

CloudQuery is an open-source, extendable framework that gives you a single-pane-of-glass to your cloud-infrastructure using SQL. Today, we are happy to announce the release of the GitHub Provider for CloudQuery.

GitHub is source-control provider helps developers store and manage their code, as well as track and control changes to their code.

In this tutorial we will install CloudQuery and use it to fetch GitHub resources. Then, we will use SQL to get visibility into security, compliance and cost-management in GitHub.

<!--truncate-->
## Setup

> First we need to [download](https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery/releases) our pre-compiled CloudQuery binary. We can also install it with the following [brew](https://brew.sh/) command:

Reviewer 3: Should all `we` statements be replaced with `you` ones?

### Find all Public Repositories

```sql
-- Query all repositories in the organizations that are public
SELECT id, org, name, description, created_at_time, pushed_at_time, 
updated_at_time FROM github_repositories
WHERE private = false
```

### List All Organization Owners

```sql
-- Find all users in organization that have the admin role
SELECT id, org, login, role, state FROM github_organization_members AS gom
    INNER JOIN github_organization_member_membership gomm ON gom.cq_id = gomm.organization_member_cq_id
WHERE role = 'admin'
```

### Organization Billing

```sql
-- Get billing information state for actions, packages and storage
SELECT * FROM github_action_billing

SELECT * FROM github_package_billing

SELECT * FROM github_storage_billing
```

### Long Standing Open Issues
```SQL
-- Find all open issues that have been open from that than 7 days
SELECT gr.org, gr.name, gi.id, gi.state, gi.user_login AS opened_by, gi.created_at, gi.updated_at 
FROM github_issues gi
INNER JOIN github_repositories gr ON gr.id = gi.repository_id
WHERE state = 'open' AND NOW() - interval '7 days' > created_at 
```
## What's next

> We are going to continue to expand and maintain the GitHub Provider, adding support for more current and future resources. Interested in seeing another provider? Check out [Developing New Provider](https://docs.cloudquery.io/docs/developers/developing-new-provider) and/or open an issue on our [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We are going to continue expanding the GitHub Provider, adding support for more resources. Interested in seeing another provider? Check out [Developing New Provider](https://docs.cloudquery.io/docs/developers/developing-new-provider) and/or open an issue on our [GitHub](https://github.com/cloudquery/cloudquery).
```
